# Math131FinalProject
This is a repository for MATH 131 Final Porject

Introduction
This would be a project that goes over multiple integrals, double and triple. This is the kind of project that would allow us to determine integrals in multiple dimensions, or in different coordinate systems, and as a whole is something that is important due to their flexibility and ability to not need to be in cartesian coordinates. However, what we will be doing is not as complex and instead will focus primarily on the cartesian coordinate system, and will go over both double and triple integration, in that order.
Code Proposal
The code provided for this project would start with the base of the composite midpoint and composite trapezoidal rule. These provide estimates for integrals for a single integral. This code would be extracted and enhanced to be more suitable for double and triple integrals. We will be submitting 5 files to accompany the written proposal: main.m, compMid2.m, compMid3.m, compTrap2.m, and compTrap3.m. The main.m file is a file that will be run, and composes for a for loop that goes from over all of the examples that we will demonstrate against. There will be a boolean variable in this function that will see if we are currently looking at a double or triple integral, and it will keep that in mind when applying to the example that it is testing against, or, if that proves to be too difficult to keep track of, the main.m file may be split into 2 files, main2.m and main3.m, which will be kept separately to test against the double or the triple integrals, and will keep their own functions, but approximately similar, if not identical, number of functions in each of those two files. The goal is to use main.m as a file to run and test the other files. compMid2.m, compMid3.m, compTrap2.m, and compTrap3.m are files that are specifically where we will input composite midpoint or composite trapezoidal rule, for 2 or 3 dimensions. These files are just the method, and will consist only of that. They will be called by main.m to test.
Written Proposal
This project would be a textbook style code. It would overview quickly, with no more than 1 page combined, the theory of what integration does, as well as the single integration of the 2 methods mentioned above, composite midpoint and composite trapezoidal. Then, it will go over the theory of how to do double integrals, using two examples, a circle and a non trivially integrable function. Then, it will go over the triple integral methods, and will go over two more examples, a sphere and a non trivially integrable function. It will use these examples to derive the formula for double and triple integrals of both the composite midpoint method and composite trapezoidal methods. This is expected to take about 7 or 8 pages, which means that 1 or 2 pages are left, which will be exercises left for the reader, which happen to be more examples that will be provided in the code proposal.


UPDATE (December 9):
As of recently (November 30), we will only be going over main2.m, compMid2.m, and compTrap2.m, the X3.m files are no longer relevant to our project. Additionally, main2.m and compMid2.m are completed.
